---
title: Meeting 119 – 26th July 2018
date: 2018-07-26
---

#### Attendees:

Rolf (RK), Stuart (SP), Brian (BR), Chris Prosser (CP), Maxime (MC),
George (GC), Milan (M)

#### Apologies:

Alex, Catherine

#### Actions from previous:

113.2 – Stuart to speak to Catherine about this. Probably delayed till
after August. Stuart asked if it could be attached to the NoBugs meeting
but RK and MC are not attending.

#### ICAT Components:

##### ICAT Server (SP):

  - Updated ICAT installation tutorial to use Payara and latest versions
  - Rolf brings up point on proxy configuration for ICAT. Not present in
    tutorial.
  - Non-ascii characters are not correctly returned from the REST API.
    RK and SP investigating the cause.

##### Topcat (BR)

  - Rewritten Topcat getsize to use IDS API.
  - Reference to Topcat.css issue resolved.

**IJP (BR), IDS (RK) and Python ICAT (RK)** – Nothing to report.

#### Site Updates

**Diamond (CP), ESRF (MC)** – Nothing to report

**HZB (RK)** – Rolf reports he is installing the ICAT components to new
machines in August.

#### Waffle.IO tickets

\#87 locking and threading problem in file explorer resolved, could be
included in next release. SP says this could be released in September.

RK says he may be able to look at other schema changes in August.  
Item Description
Assigned

#### Actions

 

|       |                                                                |                 |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| 113.2 | Organise a meeting for the discussion of a Topcat replacement  | Catherine Jones |
| 119.1 | Review and update instructions for Apache proxy configuration. | SP and RK       |

 

Next meeting scheduled for Thursday 23rd August 3pm UK time.

[Edit](https://icatproject.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1650&action=edit)
