---
title: Meeting 113 – 8th February 2018 (January Meeting delayed)
date: 2018-02-08
---

Attendees: Catherine Jones (CJ), Brian Ritchie (BR) , Rolf Krahl (RK),
Brian Matthew (BM), Milan (M), Andy Gotz (AG), Alex de Maria (AM)

Apologies: Stuart Pullinger

# Actions from previous:

**102.2** – BR is still working on this\!

**112.1** – SP has granted RK access to the GitHub repository.

# ICAT Components:

**IDS –** RK reports he’s added the new locking mechanism ready for the
1.9 release. Most open issues for 1.9 are complete. RK is also waiting
for SP to review the Pull Requests open in GitHub as it decided at the
F2F to review code before merging.

**Topcat** – BR reports no changes recently except getting the Travis
build working. Screen flicker issue reported again and BR has found a
fix but it is going to require more testing to make sure it doesn’t
break anything else.

Nothing to report on all other components.

# Site Updates

**Diamond** – CJ reports on behalf of SP that diamond have moved their
preprod to Payara, no problems apart from changing the setup scripts for
the old components as already known.

**ESRF** – AM reports they have a basic version implemented of automatic
DOI minting for new investigations with a dynamically created landing
page. Currently using test DOIs to check everything is working correctly
before putting into production.

**Milan** – Announces it now official that the EST will be using the
ICAT stack.

# RDA Berlin Meeting

RK reminds us of the RDA meeting in March with the 2-day meeting before
19 ^(th) /20 ^(th) . RK asks if ESRF would like to present at the
workshop. AM says he could talk about something like ‘how to map nexus
files to ICAT’ or the ‘overview of data management at ESRF’. Anyone who
wants to should send ideas for contributions to RK. ICAT steering
committee meeting set to go ahead even though AG cannot attend in
person.

# PaNOSC

AG explains they’re looking at create a federated API that can be used
to access ICAT and other data cataloguing systems. The project also
involves looking at data policies and data stewardship and checking
their compliance with the FAIR data principles.

# AOB

AM suggests thinking about the replacement for Topcat and how can the
ESRF make their requirements known. CJ suggests a separate meeting
should be scheduled to find out what’s essential from each of the
facilities using Topcat, and then a technology can be decided on. It is
decided to hold this before the Berlin meeting so discussion can
continue there.

CJ announces STFC has successfully recruited a Topcat developer due to
start in the summer and that a graduate will be joining us in the autumn
to work on the ICAT stack.

# Actions \*\*

\*\*

|       |                                        |                  |
| ----- | -------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| Item  | Description                            | Assigned         |
| 102.2 | Produce new releases of IJP components | Brian Ritchie    |
| 113.1 | Look at Rolfs IDS pull request         | Stuart Pullinger |
| 113.2 | Organise a meeting for the             |                  |
