---
title: Meeting 114 – 22nd February 2018
date: 2018-02-02
---

# Attendees

Stuart Pullinger (SP), Silvia Da Graca Ramos, (SR), Brian Ritchie, (BR),
Rolf Krhl (RK), Alex de Maria (AM), Maxime Chaillet (MC).

Apologies: Andy Gotz, Catherine Jones.

# Actions from previous

**102.2 –** BR still working on this.

**113.1 –** SP has looked and commented on one of the pull requests for
IDS server. Still another for SP to look at as well as new pull request
from RK on IDS plugin regarding abstract class changes.

**113.2 –** CJ will organise the Topcat development meeting for before
steering committee meeting.

# ICAT Components

**Website and Manual –** SP reports he is working on the website as well
as updating the manual and hopes to have something to show by March for
steering committee meeting.

**IDS Server –** RK reports IDS server 1.9.0 snapshot created, includes
new locking mechanism that’s been in master since August and the pull
requests that are still pending.

**IDS Plugin –** RK reports 1.4.0 snapshot created. This release
simplifies the abstract classes, along with new documentation.

# Site Updates

**Diamond** – SR reports diamond IDS updated to 1.8 on preprod with no
problems, along with more Glassfish to Payara updates

**ESRF** – AM reports updating from ICAT server 4.8 to 4.9.1 to fix
performance issue with updating investigation with thousands of
datasets. Also updating from Glassfish to Payara, SP mentions install
script version problem but AM already aware.

# AOB

AM asks about the Lucene index, RK confirms it is only required for text
searching ICAT and not anything else. SR mentions if using Lucene and
database manually edited the Lucene Index will need force updating.

RK mentions he still needs title of talks for RDA meeting in March. Also
RK mentions that the next scheduled monthly meeting will be in the same
week as the steering committee meeting so it’s decided to rearrange the
monthly meeting to the 29^(th) of
March.

# Actions

|       |                                                               |                  |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| Item  | Description                                                   | Assigned         |
| 102.2 | Produce new releases of IJP components                        | Brian Ritchie    |
| 113.1 | Look at Rolfs IDS Server and IDS Plugin pull request          | Stuart Pullinger |
| 113.2 | Organise a meeting for the discussion of a Topcat replacement | Catherine Jones  |

 

 

 

 

 

[Edit](https://icatproject.org/wp-admin/post.php?post=1605&action=edit)
