---
title: Meeting 73 – 24 April 2014
date: 2014-04-24
---

Agenda

  - Actions from meeting 72 (Steve)
  - ICAT development (Steve)
  - TopCAT development (Wayne)
  - Alternatives to Glassfish (Any)
  - Issuing DOIs for ICAT (Tom)
  - ICAT roadmap update (Steve)
  - Issues from ICAT production deployments (Any)
  - AOB (Any)

### Notes 73

Present: Steve, Wayne, Kunal, Tom, Shelly

Apologies: Milan, Anton, Rolf

The meeting startup was delayed by about 10 minutes because of mistakes
in setting up a laptop at RAL. Action 72.0 – Circulate likely
time-scales for the items on the current road map is no longer relevant
as a new roadmap – with dates – will be discussed in this meeting –
Closed

Action 72.1 – Kunal had organised a Hangout familiarisation meeting last
week – Closed

Action 72.2 – The IDS plugin interface was discussed in Dub with SSIlin
and the views of Christophe accepted – Closed Action 72.3 – Tom
explained that Alistair had had some misconfiguration – Closed

Action 72.4 – Fixed in 4.3.3 – Closed

Steve reported on the 4.3.3 SNAPSHOTs of the server and client. Shelly
asked about the need to use Glassfish 4. Steve explained that Glassfish
4 was used for testing and that it allowed the deployment order of
components to be defined but that version 3 of Glassfish should still
work.

Wayne reported that the next TopCAT release was delayed by about a
month. Various bug fixes had been made but the upload facility was not
yet complete.

Kunal has started looking at WildFly as an alternative container. He
will report next month.

Tom explained his ideas about issuing DOIs for the ICAT software. He
will put this into a posting in order to get feedback on the desired
granularity – Action

Steve explained the updated roadmap. A couple of small changes were
suggested and having reassured Tom that nothing had been removed besides
giving consideration to integration of ICE into TopCAT and the
construction of a federation service there was agreement that the
updated roadmap – with the two extra changes from the meeting should
replace the existing roadmap, but that the existing one be preserved on
the web site to show progress. Changes to multi-ICAT searching were
discussed, including providing mockups of the proposed designs.

Tom reported that Kevin had been updating their ICAT 4.3.2 to use
Glassfish 4. He had had some problems with certificates.

Shelly asked about the date of the next meeting. It is normally held on
the last Thursday of the month – so in this case the 29th
May.

### Actions 73

 

|      |                                                                                |          |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- |
| Item | Description                                                                    | Assigned |
| 73.0 | Send round a proposal for ICAT DOIs                                            | Tom      |
| 73.1 | Report on issues porting to WildFly                                            | Kunal    |
| 73.2 | Send around details of Balsamiq mockups                                        | Tom      |
| 72.5 | Add authz rules to contrib directory                                           | Tom      |
| 71.3 | Invite WP4 of Pandata to provide feedback on their experience of ICAT products | Alistair |
| 61.1 | Put the simple ICAT browser into contrib when it is ready                      | Tom      |
| 60.3 | Finalise a release of IJP and send a note to the mailing list                  | Steve    |
