---
title: Meeting 18 – 3 March 2011
date: 2011-03-03
---

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 03 March 2011  
18.1 – Alistair Mills – 3 March
2011

 

|       |                                                                                                                                                              |            |        |            |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | ------ | ---------- |
| New   | Description                                                                                                                                                  | Res**(1)** | Status | Comment(2) |
| 18.00 | Document the meeting                                                                                                                                         | TG/AM      | Done   | –          |
| 18.01 | Be aware that from 01/2012 ILL may have another ICAT dev                                                                                                     | All        | Ok     | –          |
| 18.02 | Inform Roger Downing about the CIC ingest performance                                                                                                        | AM         | .      | –          |
| 18.03 | Create a road map for TopCat[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/TopCat) 1.1 or TopCat[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/TopCat) 2 | SN         | .      | –          |
| 18.04 | Provide a paper on rule based authentication                                                                                                                 | TG         | .      | –          |
| 18.05 | Update the road map for icat4 and put on GoogleCode[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/GoogleCode) Wiki                                         | AM         | .      | –          |
| 18.06 | Update the workpackage description and put on GoogleCode[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/GoogleCode)                                         | AM         | .      | –          |

 

**(1) Collaborators**

**|| Apologies || + || +**

|      |                          |           |         |  |
| ---- | ------------------------ | --------- | ------- |  |
| init | Name                     | Institute | Present |  |
| TG   | Tom Griffin              | STFC ISIS | \+      |  |
| HG   | Holger Gebhard           | ILL       |         |  |
| SF   | Steve Fisher             | STFC      |         |  |
| AM   | Alistair Mills           | STFC      | \+      |  |
| GKM  | Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui | Diamond   |         |  |
| SN   | Sri Nagella              | STFC      | \+      |  |
| RS   | Richard Sinclair         | STFC      |         |  |
| RF   | Ron Fowler               | STFC      |         |  |
| HC   | Harjinder Chahal         | STFC      | \+      |  |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps             | STFC      |         |  |
