---
title: Meeting 25 – 3 November 2011
date: 2011-11-03
---

Agenda for ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 3 November 2011

  - Actions since the meeting on 22 September
  - Status of ICAT 4 (Alistair)
  - Representation of time (Steve)
  - Status of port to MySQL (Alistair)
  - Resources available in 2012 (All)
  - Progress on evaluation of ICAT4 (Steve)
  - Possibility of adding a .props file for configuration
  - Brief thoughts on adding notification
  - BMT rather than CMT (Steve)
  - Status of ICAT work at ILL (J-F)
  - Status of ICAT work at ORNL (SR)

 

### Actions 25

Actions from ICAT collaboration telephone conference on 3 November
2011  
25.1 – Alistair Mills – 3 November
2011

 

|       |                                                                |            |        |         |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------ | ------- |
| Item  | Description                                                    | Res**(1)** | Status | Comment |
| 25.00 | Document the meeting                                           | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 25.01 | Follow up on actions 24.04 and 24.06                           | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 25.02 | Follow up on action 24.03 (Use of Maven for building ICAT4)    | SF         | Done   | –       |
| 25.03 | Attempt to do ICAT 3 to ICAT 4 upgrade using an ISIS testbed   | TG         | .      | –       |
| 25.04 | Attempt to do ICAT 3 to ICAT 4 upgrade using an ILL testbed    | J-F        | .      | –       |
| 25.05 | Discuss the GF 3.1.1 problem                                   | AM/SR      | Done   | –       |
| 25.06 | Investigate ways to represent time to suit the data            | SF/RS      | .      | –       |
| 25.07 | Add a properties file to ICAT4                                 | SF         | Done   | –       |
| 25.08 | Experiment with Bean Managed Transactions for ICAT 4.1         | SF         | Done   | –       |
| 25.09 | Send comments on the changes to the ICAT API to Steve          | All        | Done   | –       |
| 25.10 | Provide a document about notification                          | SF         | Done   | –       |
| 25.11 | Add fields for STARTTIME and ENDTIME to DATASET for ICAT 4.0   | SF         | Done   | –       |
| 25.12 | Defer further implementation of MySQL with ICAT until ICAT 4.1 | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 25.13 | Follow up with Shelly on ORNL requirements                     | SR         | Done   | –       |
| 25.14 | Investigate hosting a collaboration meeting at ILL in 1Q2012   | J-F        | Done   | –       |
| 25.15 | Schedule next collaboration meeting for 17 November 2011       | AM         | Done   | –       |

 

**(1) Collaborators**

 

|      |                  |           |         |           |
| ---- | ---------------- | --------- | ------- | --------- |
| init | Name             | Institute | Present | Apologies |
| TG   | Tom Griffin      | STFC ISIS | \+      |           |
| SF   | Steve Fisher     | STFC      | \+      |           |
| AM   | Alistair Mills   | STFC      | \+      |           |
| HC   | Harjinder Chahal | STFC      | \+      |           |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps     | STFC      | \+      |           |
| SR   | Shelly Ren       | ORNL      | \+      |           |
| J-F  | Jean-Francois    | ILL       | \+      |           |
| RS   | Richard Sinclair | STFC      |         |           |
