---
title: Meeting 112 – 21st December 2017
date: 2017-12-02
---

# Agenda

  - Components
  - Sites
  - Previous Actions
  - AOB
  - Next Meeting

Attendees: Stuart Pullinger (SP); Brian Ritchie (BR); Rolf Krahl (RK);
Milan (Milan); Andy Gotz (AG)

# Components

###### icat.server (SP)

Nothing to report

###### TopCat (BR)

  - Better error logging
  - Instructions sent to ESRF on setting poll.delay setting to reduce
    wait on 2 ^(nd) downloads
  - Treat HTTP the same as HTTPS for downloads in TopCat
  - Improvements to testing and Travis-CI

###### IJP (BR)

  - Nothing new to report
  - No release yet
  - Possible new requirement for web interface

###### Python-Icat (RK)

  - Nothing to report

###### IDS (RK)

  - Aim for new release in January
  - Filesystem locking: RK to open pull request in January

# Sites

###### Diamond (SP)

  - Problems with Diamond’s infrastructure around ICAT. Not necessarily
    bugs/issues with ICAT.
  - Problems with user account migration. Highlighted need for better
    documentation of this procedure and/or recommended best practices.
  - Problems with failed or long data recalls.

###### ESRF (AG)

  - Assessing new requests from beamlines: for example, re-using a scan
    name from an aborted scan
  - Working on a DOI landing page

# AOB

  - RK reminded us of the RDA meeting in March with the 2-day meeting
    before 19 ^(th) /20 ^(th)
  - AG: Infradev 4 – European Open Science Cloud involvement. Elettra
    are involved in the consortium. We should discuss in
    January/February for possible ICAT effort.
  - Milan: Elettra 2.0 confirmed: 6 years funding.
  - RK: we need a plan for taking forward Steve’s suggestions from the
    Face to Face meeting
  - SP: A meeting will be arranged in January to allocate tasks and set
    priorities for development of ICAT components
  - AG: We need to quantify the limitations experienced by Diamond in
    accessing large tables of metadata.

# Actions

|       |                                        |               |
| ----- | -------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Item  | Description                            | Assigned      |
| 102.2 | Produce new releases of IJP components | Brian Ritchie |
| 112.1 | Grant RK access to github repository   | Stuart        |
|       |                                        |               |
