---
title: Meeting 103 – 26 January 2017
date: 2017-01-26
---

Present : Jody, Brian, Tom, Tom, Frazer, Steve, Jeremy,
Sylvie,  Andy,  Rolf and Milan

  - Topcat – 2.3 developments presented by Jody includes file upload,
    plugin api extended, doi plugin almost working now will appear as
    component soon, daas plugin almost working based on openstack not
    ready yet, novnc interface,
  - IDS – pull request from Rolf, still waiting for Steve to answer –
    high on Steve’s list
  - icat server – 4.9 will come out in 4 weeks, next release of python
    icat will be 0.13 depends on on icat server 4.9, Payara needs new
    releases of all components, will drop some components from python
    icat (cgi module and icat 4.2)
  - HZB – currently evaluating a storage system
  - ESRF – new beamlines (BioSAX + MX) + IDS design for ESRF storage
    still on going. Rolf offered to help and visit the ESRF next month.
  - Thematic services – Andy briefly presented the proposal to integrate
    icat as a service in the EINFRA12a e-infrastructures proposal. Rolf,
    Tom + Steve are on board. Andy + Tom (Griffin) would be the
    proposers.
  - e-logbook – brief discussion about e-logbooks and if they should be
    linked to
icat

# Actions

| **Item** | **Description**                                                                                | **Assigned** |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 102.1    | Send message to icatgroup explaining proposed modification to plugin interface for IDS locking | Rolf         |
| 102.2    | Produce new releases of IJP components                                                         | Brian R.     |
