---
title: Meeting 110 – 28 September 2017
date: 2017-09-28
---

# Agenda

  - Actions from meeting 109 (Steve)
  - Component development
      - ICAT (Steve/Stuart)
      - ICAT Manager (Alex)
      - ~~Python-icat (Rolf)~~
      - IDS (Steve/Stuart)
          - ~~FUSE~~
          - PollCat (Frazer)
          - ~~SmartClient (Steve)~~
          - IDAV (Jamie)
      - TopCAT (Jody/Brian)
      - IJP (Brian R/Alastair)
      - ICAT Dashboard (Jamie)
      - ~~Multi-container support (Steve)~~
      - ~~Installation (Steve/Stuart)~~
  - ~~Website (Stuart)~~
  - Next F2F Meeting – Stuart/Andy
  - Issues from ICAT production deployments (Any)
  - AOB (Any)

Present:  
Apologies: Rolf, Tom

Actions from
109

|          |                                                                                                |                |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| **Item** | **Description**                                                                                | **Assigned**   |
| 102.1    | Send message to icatgroup explaining proposed modification to plugin interface for IDS locking | Rolf           |
| 102.2    | Produce new releases of IJP components                                                         | Brian Ritchie  |
| 106.2    | Produce response to Andy’s review and an action plan to address the problems.                  | Steve + Stuart |
| 109.1    | Produce agenda for F2F                                                                         | Steve          |
