---
title: Meeting 66 – 19 September 2013
date: 2013-09-19
---

  - Actions from the meeting 65 (Alistair)
  - Status of ICAT 4.3 (Steve)
  - Update from Pandata (Alistair)
  - Status of IDS (Steve)
  - AOB (All)

### Notes 66

Present: Alistair (STFC/chair), Frazer (ISIS), Tom (ISIS), George
(Elettra), Milan (Elettra), Julien (ESRF), Shelly (SNS) and Steve (STFC)

Apologies: Jamie (ILL)

The date of the ICAT face to face meeting in 2014 was discussed. The
final Pandata meeting is scheduled for 29 March 2014 in Dublin to meet
in the same week as the RDA meeting in Dublin. The last three face to
face meetings in 2011 (Paris), 2012 (Grenoble) and 2013 (Lund) were
schedule to meet in the same week as a Pandata meeting. It was agreed
that we would defer a decision on the date until more information is
available about a successor project to Pandata. It is likely that
ICAT-2014 will be in May 2014. We will try to settle the data by
December 2013.

Tom reported that a bug in
NxIngest[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/NxIngest) had
been detected and corrected.

Steve reported that the snapshots for ICAT 4.3 and related components
are available and he would like more feedback.

Steve reported that progress on IDS 1.0 was good, and that it should be
available in October/November.

Tom reported that Mantid now supports ICAT 4.2.

Shelly reported that SNS is now investigating the use of ICAT with
autoreduction.

Alistair reported that he is arranging a two day training course for
technical people in Pandata. The training will include the installation,
deployment and operations of the latest ICAT materials including their
integration with Apache. The training will also cover Topcat, IDS,
Umbrella.

The meeting concluded at
15h30.

### Actions 66

 

|       |                                                                      |       |                                                                 |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Item  | Description                                                          | Res   | Status                                                          |
| 66.00 | Document the meeting and update the actions                          | AM    | Done                                                            |
| 66.01 | Fix the dates of the ICAT and Pandata meetings in Spring 2014        | TG/AM | .                                                               |
| 66.02 | Send a note to TG about Nxingest                                     | AM    | .                                                               |
| 66.03 | Send a note to the icat collaboration about the training for Pandata | AM    | <https://code.google.com/p/pandata/wiki/TrainingSwInstallation> |
| 66.04 | Discuss autoreduction with Erica Yang and Shelly Ren                 | AM    | .                                                               |
| 65.02 | Provide feedback on ICAT 4.3 and its related parts                   | All   | On-going                                                        |
| 64.02 | Schedule a web cast on the contents of ICAT 4.3 for September        | Steve | .                                                               |
| 61.01 | Put the simple ICAT browser into contrib when it is ready            | Tom   | .                                                               |
| 60.03 | Finalise a release of IJP and send a note to the mailing list        | Steve | .                                                               |
