---
title: Meeting 69 – 31 October 2013
date: 2013-10-31
---

  - Actions from meeting 68 (Alistair)
  - Status of ICAT 4.3 (Steve)
  - Status of IDS (Steve)
  - Status of TopCAT (Steve)
  - Issues from ICAT production deployments (All)
  - AOB (All)

### Notes 69

Present: Steve, Frazer, Alistair, Kunal, Milan

Apologies: Shelly, Jamie, Christophe, Tom

Steve reported that he had talked to Bill and Stefan in ISIS about
Umbrella authentication. He also reported that he had exchanged emails
with Bjorn at PSI. He said that he was making progress, but it was not
possible to say when it would work, as completion is dependent on the
collaboration of the group.

Steve reported that ICAT 4.3.0 was now available and he had only on
reported fault.

Steve reported that he was now working on IDS, and that he was confident
that the IDS release will be ready in November 2013.

Steve reported that Wayne is making good progress with Topcat. It is
expected that Topcat 2.0 will be available in November 2013 and include
support for IDS.

Frazer reported that ISIS now has ICAT 4.3 available with Topcat 1.9.

Steve reported that ISIS now has ICAT 4.3 available with Topcat 1.9.

Milan reported that SV6 is due on 1 November and that the tests are
running correctly at Elettra.

Alistair reported that the materials for the training course on in the
installation of the Pandata software stack are almost ready and that the
course will take place next week.

Alistair reported that good progress was being made with the ingester
for ESRF and that ingestion into the production ICAT at ESRF will start
during November.

(Ed’s note – Jamie sent a report that ILL has recruited an additional
engineer to work on the ILL catalogue. The engineer will start work in
November).

### Actions 69

 

|       |                                                                            |        |           |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | --------- |
| Item  | Description                                                                | Res    | Status    |
| 69.00 | Document the meeting and update the actions                                | AM     | Done      |
| 69.01 | Make use of the new ISIS ICAT in SV6 on 1 November                         | AM     | Done      |
| 69.02 | Make use of the new DLS ICAT in SV6 on 1 November                          | AM     | Done      |
| 69.03 | Discuss that training course for Pandata and make changes to the materials | AM/SF  | Done      |
| 66.01 | Fix the dates of the ICAT and Pandata meetings in Spring 2014              | TG/AM  | Done      |
| 66.02 | Send a note to TG about Nxingest                                           | AM     | Done      |
| 66.04 | Discuss with Erica Yang issues of mutual concern                           | Shelly | Done      |
| 64.02 | Schedule a web cast on the contents of ICAT 4.3                            | Steve  | Cancelled |
| 61.01 | Put the simple ICAT browser into contrib when it is ready                  | Tom    | .         |
| 60.03 | Finalise a release of IJP and send a note to the mailing list              | Steve  | .         |
