---
title: Meeting 65 – 5 September 2013
date: 2013-09-05
---

  - Actions from the meeting 64 (Alistair)
  - Status of ICAT 4.3 (Steve)
  - Issues from ICAT production deployments (All)
  - AOB (All)

### Notes 65

Present: Alistair (STFC/chair), Kevin (STFC), Tom (ISIS), Idrissou
(Soleil) and Steve (STFC)

There has been an offer from ISIS to host the face to face meeting in
March 2014. It was agreed to accept this offer and the chairman thanked
Tom for the offer. The meeting is likely to be held in collaboration
with the final meeting of Pandata.

Steve reported that progress on the collection of parts associated with
release of ICAT 4.3 was going well. There are a small number of
interdependencies. For example ICAT 4.3 requires a new version of
Icat-setup. The authn\_db has also changed. There was a discussion of
detection of compatibilities. It was agreed to review these, following
experience of using the new versions of the parts.

There were no issues with any production deployment. However Tom
reported that he was very keen to move to ICAT 4.3 as it solves some of
his difficulties.

There was a question about the status of IDS. Steve reported the
technical work was going well, and that a version for comment would be
available in October. Tom asked that this version be available soon,
even if some advanced features for remote file systems are not
supported.

The meeting concluded at
15h30.

### Actions 65

 

|       |                                                               |       |          |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | -------- |
| Item  | Description                                                   | Res   | Status   |
| 65.00 | Document the meeting and update the actions                   | AM    | Done     |
| 65.01 | Discuss the arrangements for ICAT 2014 with Pandata           | TG/AM | Done     |
| 65.02 | Provide feedback on ICAT 4.3 and its related parts            | All   | On-going |
| 65.03 | Meet again on 19 September                                    | All   | Done     |
| 64.02 | Schedule a web cast on the contents of ICAT 4.3 for September | Steve | .        |
| 64.03 | Make snapshots of ICAT 4.3.rc available for comment in August | Steve | Done     |
| 61.01 | Put the simple ICAT browser into contrib when it is ready     | Tom   | .        |
| 60.03 | Finalise a release of IJP and send a note to the mailing list | Steve | .        |
