---
title: Meeting 30 – 9 February 2012
date: 2012-02-09
---

### Actions 30

 

|       |                                                                         |            |             |                                                                                                 |
| ----- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Item  | Description                                                             | Res**(1)** | Status      | Comment                                                                                         |
| 30.00 | Document the meeting                                                    | AM         | Done        | –                                                                                               |
| 30.01 | Make an announcement about the meeting in Grenoble                      | AM         | Done        | [WorkshopGrenoble2012](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/wiki/WorkshopGrenoble2012)         |
| 30.02 | Contact CRISP project about Grenoble                                    | AM         | Done        | Spoke to Jean-Francois                                                                          |
| 30.03 | Remind SN about OIIMPH                                                  | AM         | Done        | SN has nothing to add\!                                                                         |
| 30.04 | Remind SdeW about Eudat requirements for ICAT 4.1                       | AM         | Done        | RequirementsIcat41\#Eudat[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/RequirementsIcat41)   |
| 30.05 | Remind SN about DLS login information                                   | AM         | Done        | Completed                                                                                       |
| 30.06 | Distribute Topcat40 for installation with ICAT40                        | AM         | In progress | Ask Harjinder                                                                                   |
| 30.07 | Ask for requirements for ICAT 4.1 from CLF, SNS, DLS                    | AM         | In progress | RequirementsIcat41[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/RequirementsIcat41)          |
| 30.08 | Add requirements for ICAT 4.1 for PANDATA                               | AM         | Done        | RequirementsIcat41\#Pandata[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/RequirementsIcat41) |
| 30.09 | Email collaboration about sample data                                   | All        | .           | –                                                                                               |
| 30.10 | Email TG about requirements for the meeting in Grenoble                 | All        | Done        | –                                                                                               |
| 30.11 | Coordinate arrangements with the contact person at ILL for the workshop | TG         | In progress | –                                                                                               |

 

### Agenda 30

  - Actions from the meetings of 26 January
  - Status of ICAT 4.0
    (Icat40Announcement[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/Icat40Announcement))
  - Publicly available ICAT 4.0 demonstration system
    (Icat40Demonstrator[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/Icat40Demonstrator))
  - Road map for ICAT 4.1
    (Icat41Roadmap[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/Icat41Roadmap))
  - Collaboration agreement of
    PanData[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/PanData) and
    ICAT
    (IcatPandataAgreement[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/IcatPandataAgreement))
  - Proposal to reduce the number of fields for an Investigation and to
    regularise the field and entity names. (Steve)
  - The Sample, Dataset, Investigation triangle (Steve)
  - Face to Face Meeting in Grenoble in 2012
    ([WorkshopGrenoble2012](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/wiki/WorkshopGrenoble2012))
  - Review of ICAT Collaboration by Software Sustainability Institute
    ([SsiExecutiveSummary](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/wiki/SsiExecutiveSummary))
  - AOB

### Attendance 30

 

|      |                          |            |         |           |
| ---- | ------------------------ | ---------- | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name                     | Institute  | Present | Apologies |
| TG   | Tom Griffin              | STFC ISIS  | \+      |           |
| SF   | Steve Fisher             | STFC eSc   | \+      |           |
| AM   | Alistair Mills           | STFC eSc   | \+      |           |
| BM   | Brian Matthews           | STFC eSc   | \+      |           |
| GKM  | Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui | Diamond    | \+      |           |
| HC   | Harjinder Chahal         | STFC eSc   | \+      |           |
| SR   | Shelly Ren               | ORNL SNS   |         | \+        |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps             | STFC eSc   | \+      |           |
| SW   | Shaun de Witt            | STFC EUDAT |         | \+        |
| MP   | Milan Prica              | ELLETRA    | \+      |           |
| GK   | George Kourousias        | ELLETRA    | \+      |           |
| AW   | Antony Wilson            | STFC eSc   |         | \+        |
