---
title: Meeting 28 – 12 January 2012
date: 2012-01-12
---

### Actions 28

 

|       |                                                                                                                                        |            |        |         |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------ | ------- |
| Item  | Description                                                                                                                            | Res**(1)** | Status | Comment |
| 28.00 | Document the meeting                                                                                                                   | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 28.01 | Agree a description of the PanData[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/PanData)/ ICAT collaboration                        | AM/GK      | Done   | –       |
| 28.02 | Provide a list of requirement for ICAT from PanData[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/PanData)                           | GK         | .      | –       |
| 28.03 | Prepare a list of PanData[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/PanData) contacts for the ICAT collaboration (1 per partner) | GK         | .      | –       |
| 28.04 | Put discussion of related projects such as Eudat on the agenda for future meetings                                                     | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 28.05 | Comment on Steve’s paper on notification                                                                                               | All        | Done   | –       |
| 28.06 | Prepare ICAT 4.0.RC.0 as soon as possible and inform collaboration                                                                     | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 28.07 | Test ICAT RCs and provide feedback                                                                                                     | All        | Done   | –       |
| 28.08 | Prepare a road map for ICAT 4.1 for discussion at the next meeting                                                                     | AM         | .      | –       |
| 28.09 | Send email to Shelly about the meeting in Hamburg                                                                                      | AM         | Done   | –       |

 

### Agenda 28

  - Actions for the meetings of 1 December
  - Working with
    PanData[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/PanData) project
  - Working with Eudat project
  - Working with European Meta Data Projects
  - Notification
        proposal
      - <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1COpWdSBoChVQKkFINIqACRhdlcdcxD1S2tzBDtw8WKY/edit?hl=en_US&pli=1>
  - Plan for ICAT 4.0 – the ICAT4 technology preview release
  - Review of ICAT Collaboration by Software Sustainability
        Institute
      - <http://www.software.ac.uk/news/2011-11-29-software-sustainability-institute-review-google-code-project>
  - Visit of David Webster of the University of Leeds to work on API
    migration

### Attendance 28

 

|      |                          |           |         |           |
| ---- | ------------------------ | --------- | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name                     | Institute | Present | Apologies |
| TG   | Tom Griffin              | STFC ISIS | \+      |           |
| SF   | Steve Fisher             | STFC      | \+      |           |
| AM   | Alistair Mills           | STFC      | \+      |           |
| GKM  | Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui | Diamond   | \+      |           |
| HC   | Harjinder Chahal         | STFC      | \+      |           |
| SR   | Shelly Ren               | ORNL      | \+      |           |
| MP   | Milan Prica              | ELLETRA   | \+      |           |
| GK   | George Kourousias        | ELLETRA   | \+      |           |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps             | STFC      |         | \+        |
| SW   | Shaun de Witt            | STFC      |         | \+        |
