---
title: Meeting 47 – 15 November 2012
date: 2012-11-15
---

  - Actions from the meetings 46 (Alistair/Steve)
  - Plans for ICAT 4.3 and beyond (Tom)
  - Update from PaN-data (Milan/George)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for DLS (Ghita)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for ISIS (Tom)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for CLF (Alistair)
  - AOB (Any)

### Attendance 47

 

|      |                   |                    |         |           |
| ---- | ----------------- | ------------------ | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name              | Institute          | Present | Apologies |
| AM   | Alistair Mills    | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| SF   | Steve Fisher      | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps      | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| MP   | Milan Prica       | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| GK   | George Kourousias | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| JH   | Jamie Hall        | ILL                | \+      |           |
| TG   | Tom Griffin       | STFC ISIS Facility | \+      |           |
| AW   | Antony Wilson     | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| BM   | Brian Matthews    | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| FB   | Frazer Barnsely   | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |

 

### Actions 47

 

|       |                                                                                                                                    |            |               |                                               |
| ----- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| Item  | Description                                                                                                                        | Res**(1)** | Status        | Comment                                       |
| 47.00 | Document the meeting                                                                                                               | AM         | Done          | –                                             |
| 47.01 | Send Shelly an email about the meeting in March                                                                                    | AM         | Done          | –                                             |
| 47.02 | Clarify ICAT licence                                                                                                               | AM         | Done          | <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause> |
| 47.03 | Notify people of IcatLegacyPolicy[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/IcatLegacyPolicy)                                | AM         | Done          | –                                             |
| 47.04 | Clarify the data mining requirements                                                                                               | JH         | .             | –                                             |
| 47.05 | Add more bootstrap information for developers to wikis and documentation                                                           | SF         | Ticketed \#86 | –                                             |
| 47.06 | Ask Juergen to investigate deploying ICAT using Jboss                                                                              | AM         | Done          | –                                             |
| 47.07 | Remove ICATCompat from icat 4.3                                                                                                    | SF         | Ticketed \#87 | –                                             |
| 47.08 | Update IcatRequirements[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/IcatRequirements) based on the discussions in this meeting | TG         | Done          | –                                             |
| 47.09 | Do a prototype of machine generated documentation of the WS End Point                                                              | AW         | Ticketed \#88 | –                                             |
| 47.10 | Investigate the ICAT class in Nexus                                                                                                | GK         | Done          | –                                             |
| 47.01 | Call next meeting on Thursday 29th November (NOT a public holiday in USA)                                                          | AM         | Done          | –                                             |

 

### Attendance 47

 

|      |                   |                    |         |           |
| ---- | ----------------- | ------------------ | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name              | Institute          | Present | Apologies |
| AM   | Alistair Mills    | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| SF   | Steve Fisher      | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps      | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| MP   | Milan Prica       | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| GK   | George Kourousias | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| JH   | Jamie Hall        | ILL                | \+      |           |
| TG   | Tom Griffin       | STFC ISIS Facility | \+      |           |
| AW   | Antony Wilson     | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| BM   | Brian Matthews    | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| FB   | Frazer Barnsely   | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
