---
title: Meeting 48 – 29 November 2012
date: 2012-11-29
---

  - Actions from the meetings 47 (Alistair)
  - Icat legacy policy
    (IcatLegacyPolicy[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/IcatLegacyPolicy))
    (Alistair)
  - Requirements for ICAT 4.3 and beyond
    (IcatRequirements[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/IcatRequirements))(Tom)
  - Update from PaN-data (Milan/George)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for DLS (Ghita)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for ISIS (Tom)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for CLF (Alistair)
  - Status of contribs
    ([ContribIndex](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/wiki/ContribIndex))
    – icat\_setup, artefects from pandata/crisp (Alistair)
  - AOB
(Any)

### Actions 48

 

|       |                                                                                  |            |               |                         |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------- | ----------------------- |
| Item  | Description                                                                      | Res**(1)** | Status        | Comment                 |
| 48.00 | Document the meeting                                                             | AM         | Done          | –                       |
| 48.01 | Ask Juan to clarify the dates for the conference in Lund in March (ICAT 2013)    | AM         | Email to Juan | –                       |
| 48.02 | Email Shelly about the conference in Lund                                        | AM         | Email to Juan | –                       |
| 48.03 | Add licence information to all source code parts in ICAT 4.3 (ticket)            | AM         | Done          | Ticket \#85             |
| 48.04 | Remind Jamie Hall about clarifications of requirements for data mining           | AM         | Done          | –                       |
| 48.05 | Create tickets for action 47.05, 47.07, 47.09                                    | AM         | Done          | Tickets \#86, \#87 \#88 |
| 48.06 | Add a note to the wiki about Nexus Archive and ICAT                              | GK         | .             | –                       |
| 48.07 | Contact Mark Koenig about Nexus standards and ICAT                               | GK         | Cancelled     | –                       |
| 48.08 | Talk to Bill Pulford about Nexus, DLS and ICAT                                   | AM         | Done          | –                       |
| 48.09 | Create wiki page for the agenda for ICAT 2013 and add item on Nexus              | AM         | Done          | Sweden2013              |
| 48.10 | Enhance the ICAT Legacy Policy with a clause for support of ICAT after 6 months  | AM         | Done by Tom   | –                       |
| 48.11 | Start a discussion on the mailing lists about changes to uniqueness constraints  | SF         | Done          | –                       |
| 48.12 | Call next meetings on 13 December 2012, 10 January 2013; cancel 27 December 2012 | AM         | Done          | –                       |

 

### Attendance 48

 

|      |                          |                    |         |           |
| ---- | ------------------------ | ------------------ | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name                     | Institute          | Present | Apologies |
| AM   | Alistair Mills           | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| SF   | Steve Fisher             | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps             | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| MP   | Milan Prica              | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| GK   | George Kourousias        | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| TG   | Tom Griffin              | STFC ISIS Facility | \+      |           |
| AW   | Antony Wilson            | STFC SCD           | \+      |           |
| GKM  | Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui | Diamond            | \+      |           |
| SR   | Shelly Ren               | ORNL SNS           | \+      |           |
