---
title: Meeting 40 – 26 July 2012
date: 2012-07-26
---

### Agenda 40

  - Actions from the meetings of 14 June (Steve)
  - ICAT 4.1 – Status (Steve)
  - Plans for ICAT 4.2 (Tom)
  - Update from PaN-data (Milan/George)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for DLS (Ghita)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.2 for ISIS (Tom)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4.1 for CLF (Steve)
  - AOB
(Any)

### Actions 40

 

|       |                                                         |            |          |                                                                    |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Item  | Description                                             | Res**(1)** | Status   | Comment                                                            |
| 40.00 | Document the meeting                                    | SMF        | Done     | –                                                                  |
| 40.01 | Investigate XMLIngest with new API – can it be generic? | TG         | On-going | –                                                                  |
| 40.02 | Organise ICAT presence at NOBUGS and its ICAT workshop  | TG         | On-going | –                                                                  |
| 40.03 | Provide data to Ghita in ICAT 4.1/4.2 format            | GKM        | –        | Assigned to Ghita for the moment to make sure it is not forgotten. |

 

### Attendance 40

 

|      |                          |                    |         |           |
| ---- | ------------------------ | ------------------ | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name                     | Institute          | Present | Apologies |
| SMF  | Steve Fisher             | STFC eSc           |         | \+        |
| AM   | Alistair Mills           | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| GKM  | Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui | Diamond            | \+      |           |
| HC   | Harjinder Chahal         | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps             | STFC eSc           |         | \+        |
| AW   | Antony Wilson            | STFC eSc           |         | \+        |
| TG   | Tom Griffin              | STFC ISIS Facility | \+      |           |
| MP   | Milan Prica              | ELETTRA            |         |           |
| GK   | George Kourousias        | ELETTRA            |         |           |
| SR   | Shelly Ren               | ORNL SNS           |         |           |

 

### Notes 40

Steve mentioned the timing issue in 4.1

Tom indicated that ISIS would like XMLIngest back – but they will modify
it to use the new API efficiently and attempt to make it generic.

The purpose and format of the ICAT workshop at NOBUGS was discussed. It
was thought that a tutorial might be useful. Neither Alistair nor Steve
will be present.

Ghita would like some data in an ICAT 4.1 to test her eclipse plugin.
