---
title: Meeting 38 – 31 May 2012
date: 2012-05-31
---

|      |                          |                    |         |           |
| ---- | ------------------------ | ------------------ | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name                     | Institute          | Present | Apologies |
| SF   | Steve Fisher             | STFC eSc           |         | \+        |
| AM   | Alistair Mills           | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| GKM  | Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui | Diamond            | \+      |           |
| HC   | Harjinder Chahal         | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps             | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| AW   | Antony Wilson            | STFC eSc           |         | \+        |
| TG   | Tom Griffin              | STFC ISIS Facility |         | \+        |
| MP   | Milan Prica              | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| GK   | George Kourousias        | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| SR   | Shelly Ren               | ORNL SNS           |         | \+        |

### Agenda 38

  - Actions from the meetings of 19 May (Alistair)
  - ICAT 4.1 – Status (Steve)
  - Availability of release candidate for ICAT41 including Mysql
    (Alistair)
  - Plans for ICAT 4.2 (Tom)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4 for DLS (Ghita)
  - Deployment of ICAT 4 for ISIS (Tom)
  - Update from PaN-data (Milan/George)
  - AOB
(Any)

### Actions 38

 

|       |                                                                                   |            |        |         |
| ----- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------ | ------- |
| Item  | Description                                                                       | Res**(1)** | Status | Comment |
| 38.00 | Document the meeting                                                              | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 38.01 | Send a message to Barcelona asking for help testing ICAT 4.1 RC                   | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 38.02 | Include Topcat in the responsibilities of the IEB                                 | AM         | Done   | –       |
| 38.03 | ICAT Collaboration is to include discussion of requirements and changes to Topcat | All        | Done   | –       |
| 38.04 | Send changes to ICAT 4.0 to support SNS to SF                                     | SR         | Done   | –       |
