---
title: Meeting 36 – 3 May 2012
date: 2012-05-03
---

### Agenda 36

  - Actions from the meetings of 19 April (Alistair)
  - Update from PaN-data (Milan/George)
  - New participants joining in Grenoble (Tom)
  - Availability of Mysql support for Topcat40 (Alistair)
  - ICAT 4.1 – Status (Steve)
  - Python Client API (Steve)
  - Availability of release candidate for ICAT41 (Alistair)
  - Structure of the ‘work packages’ (Tom)
  - AOB
(Any)

> ### Actions 36

 

|       |                                                                                                            |            |                                                |         |
| ----- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| Item  | Description                                                                                                | Res**(1)** | Status                                         | Comment |
| 36.00 | Document the meeting                                                                                       | AM         | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.01 | Send comments to Milan/George re Deliverable 5.1 of Pandata                                                | AM         | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.02 | Test deployment of ICAT 4.1 with MySql[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/MySql)              | AM         | see 37.01                                      | –       |
| 36.03 | Ask ALBA for help with testing ICAT 4.1 using MySql[?](https://code.google.com/p/icatproject/w/edit/MySql) | AM         | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.04 | Plan for Pandata meeting in Trieste 27-28/6                                                                | All        | <https://sites.google.com/site/pandatatrieste> | –       |
| 36.05 | Include Nicolas at ESRF on invitation to collaboration meetings                                            | AM         | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.06 | Include email list members in invitation to collaboration meetings                                         | AM         | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.07 | Verify that Topcat40 deploys on icat40 as documented                                                       | AW         | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.08 | Set up a working group to deal with migration of ISIS ICAT to ICAT 4.1                                     | AM/TG      | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.09 | Email Christian at Julich re Python i/f to icat 4.1                                                        | AM/SF      | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.10 | Add documentation on addMany method to ICAT 4.1 API documentation                                          | SF         | see 37.02                                      | –       |
| 36.11 | Add Python interface to the roadmap for ICAT 4.1                                                           | AM         | Done                                           | –       |
| 36.12 | Add new technology eg EVO to the agenda for next meeting                                                   | AM         | Deferred                                       | –       |
| 36.13 | Prepare a topcat41 which is compatible with ICAT 4.1                                                       | AW         | see 37.03                                      | –       |
| 36.14 | Fix what went wrong with the phone in CR02 at RAL for this meeting                                         | AM         | Done                                           | –       |

 

### Attendance 36

 

|      |                          |                    |         |           |
| ---- | ------------------------ | ------------------ | ------- | --------- |
| Init | Name                     | Institute          | Present | Apologies |
| SF   | Steve Fisher             | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| AM   | Alistair Mills           | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| GKM  | Ghita Kouadri Mostefaoui | Diamond            |         | \+        |
| HC   | Harjinder Chahal         | STFC eSc           |         | \+        |
| KP   | Kevin Phipps             | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| MP   | Milan Prica              | ELETTRA            | \+      |           |
| AW   | Antony Wilson            | STFC eSc           | \+      |           |
| TG   | Tom Griffin              | STFC ISIS Facility | \+      |           |
