---
title: DLS 2015
---

The 2015 Collaboration and Steering Group meetings were held at Diamond
House, HSIC, Didcot, Oxfordshire, OX11 0DE, UK  on the 31st March and
the 1st April 2015.

# Talks

| What                                                                                                                                                                        | Who                 |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [Status of components – ICAT](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/ICAT-2015.pdf)                                                                | Steve Fisher        |
| [Status of components – ICAT Manager](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/cleva_icat_manager_2015_03_31.pdf)                                    | Christophe Cleva    |
| [ Status of components – IDS ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/IDS-2015.pdf)                                                                | Steve Fisher        |
| [ Status of components – TopCAT ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/TopCAT-F2F-March-2015.pdf)                                                | Wayne Chung         |
| [ Status of components – python-icat ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/python-icat.pdf)                                                     | Rolf Krahl          |
| [ What is ISPyB ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/ICAT-ISPYB-2015.pdf)                                                                      | Solange Delageniere |
| [ Ideas for interworking with ISPyB ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/150331-Ideas-for-interworking-with-ISPyB-dist.pdf)                    | Alun Ashton         |
| [ Response to PanData report ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/Response-to-PanData-report.pdf)                                              | Steve Fisher        |
| [ Status of components – IJP ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/IJP-demo-2015-04-01.pdf)                                                     | Brian Ritchie       |
| [ Defining, managing and extracting icat metadata to hdf5 files ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/cleva_metadata_management_2015_03_31.pdf) | Christophe Cleva    |
| [ Autoreduction at ISIS ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/ISIS-Autoreduction-ICAT-talk.pdf)                                                 | Marcus Noble        |
| [ IDS – ideas for data delivery ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/Mechanisms-for-ICAT-IDS-Data-Distribution.pdf)                            | Steve Fisher        |
| [ IDS – ideas ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/direct-ids.pdf)                                                                             | Rolf Krahl          |
| [ Roadmap ](/pdf/collaboration/communication/face-to-face-meetings/dls-2015/Roadmap-2015.pdf)                                                                               | Steve Fisher        |

## Discussion on the Roadmap:

- Documentation should include best practices
- Concerning the suggested move to Github it was pointed out that
  links to external repositories would always be needed
- It was suggested that a reporting tool summarising statistics on the
  data held in ICAT and its use (derived from the logs) would be
  useful.
- The icatproject.org website should include list of facilties using
  ICAT and a catalogue of all known "serious" ICATs partly to attract
  new users to ICAT.
